there's nothing that has greater impact
on humanity and humanity's well-being
than the heart center the heart center
is really an incredible thing it doesn't
look like it when you look at the body
graph it only has four gates and only
the head Center has fewer all of the
other major centers they they have you
know anywhere from from eight or nine or
eleven gates the heart center just has
these four games and yet each and every
one of these four gates have the
potential of having an enormous impact
on us both physically and
psychologically I've talked a lot about
the dilemma of the undefined heart
center it's in the heart center that we
find willpower and of course the
undefined heart center becomes a problem
70% of humanity have undefined heart
centers and what they get stuck with of
course is this sense that they're not
good enough and in that feeling of not
being good enough the assertion of
themselves making promises committing
themselves to doing things because they
think that they'll impress others or
they think that they'll be regarded
differently and of course this open
heart center becomes an enormous problem
for beings in terms of the way in which
the mind traps you and takes you away
from what's possible for you but there
is another side to this aside from the
obvious of the way in which the not-self
of the open heart works it's about these
four gates you know when you think about
the general problems that exist in a
society take the example of heart
disease in the heart center the
twenty-first gate its association is
with the heart muscle itself the reality
is that heart disease is one of the most
common diseases in the world and the
reality is that that is all byproduct of
open heart centers simply not
functioning correctly if you have an
undefined heart center and you make a
promise and you put all your energy
behind that promise you're putting
enormous stress on your heart muscle you
just are and of course the heart center
itself is more than just the heart if
you go down to the 40th of gate deliver
RINs you get to the gate of the stomach
and of course one of the universal
dilemmas on this plant it's something
that is dealt with in primary health
system and PHS is that human beings do
not eat correctly and as a byproduct of
that we have all kinds of problems
associated with digestion and when we go
to the 26-gauge we get to the gate of
the thymus gland dealing with the immune
system itself and the potential of the
immune system to be able to protect
itself from disease and from all kinds
of things that can interrupt the healthy
well-being of the body and in the
fifty-first gate we have the gall the
gall bladder and when you think about
this heart center when you think about
it as an open center and seventy percent
of humanity will operate as not self who
are constantly placing that pressure on
themselves because they feel that they
are unworthy and trying to dig in for a
will power truly that is not there that
they are putting enormous stress on the
system and by the way it is not just a
matter of having an open heart center
those that have a defined heart center
and do not function correctly according
to their strategy and authority are just
as likely to have dilemmas of the heart
the stomach the immune system the gall
all of that because in fact what it
comes down to is whether you're going to
operate correctly or not as a being in
this life strategy and authority the
beauty of strategy and authority is that
it begins with the form principle it
begins with the correctness of the body
when the body is correct when the body
is operating the way it should then
everything else falls into place
naturally if you have an undefined heart
center you're not here to prove anything
to anyone there is no need for those
promises and for that sense of lack of
self-worth you are here in essence to be
able to see who in fact can make such
promises and keep them but not to be
lost in them not to suffer because of
you're here to operate correctly as
yourself if you follow your strategy and
authority your mind no longer has that
power to control you and no longer has
the power through controlling the
decisions that you make to distort those
very aspects of your nature that are
fundamental to you in terms of whether
you're going to be healthy in this life
or not a life without health is not a
life that is pleasant and there is no
need for us as nine centered beings with
the awareness that we have mechanically
to live in unhealthy vehicles follow
your strategy and authority and have a
healthy heart
you